# TEDD
Program name:   TEDD: a database of temporal gene expression patterns during multiple developmental periods in human and model organisms
Aims:           (1) We curated and integrated the most comprehensive scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq datasets related to human and model organisms development 
                (2) It provides a comprehensive and user-friendly database of expression patterns and chromatin accessibility scores for enquiry.
                (3) It helps to understand the mechanisms of tissue/organ development and the causes of diseases
System:         Linux
####################

Content:        
                1. ./Bulk.R
                2. ./Single.R
                3. ./Integrated.R
                4. ./Combined.R
                5. ./Differ.R
                6. ./Chromosome.R
                7. ./Stable.R

######################
#Authors:
                Ziheng Zhou,1155131691@link.cuhk.edu.hk
                Cong Tan,tancong@genomics.cn
#Citation:
		Ziheng Zhou#, Cong Tan#, Matthew Hoi Kin Chau, Xiaosen Jiang, Ziyuan Ke, Xiaoyan Chen, Ye Cao, Yvonne K. Kwok, Matthew Bellgard, Tak Yeung Leung, Kwong Wai Choy,* Zirui Dong*. TEDD: a database of temporal gene expression patterns during multiple developmental periods in human and model organisms.
 
#Remarks:
                Pls DO use the absolute direction of each program for analysis
		Pls ENSURE the input datasets locate in the same direction/path of this program or to provide the absolute direction/path of datasets for your analysis

#Workflow:
                1. Bulk sample expression analysis: Integration of bulk expression matrices and data plot in the models of 'Single-gene Enquiry' and 'Multi-gene Enquiry' under the domain of 'Bulk Expression'.
                Rscript Bulk.R
                #input files include expression matrices and metadata files which were downloaded from ENCODE (https://www.encodeproject.org/rnaget-report/?type=RNAExpression), and the annotated genomes in gff3 format.
                
		2. Single-cell data processing workflow (non-integrated): Seurat workflow for processing the single-cell dataset at a sample level, including data QC and filtration, detection of high variable genes, dimensional reduction and graph-based clustering. This step generates files for the modules of 'Principal Component Analysis' under the domain of 'Single-cell Atlas' and for the 'Co-expression function' domain.
		Rscript Single.R
                #input files include the cell expression matrices and metadata in a standardized format.

		3. Single-cell data integration workflow :Seurat workflow for the integration of single-cell datasets. To apply ‘SCTransform’ for normalization and to carry out “Harmony” to reduce the batch correction across different datasets, this step generates files for PCA analysis and data plotting (such as UMAP figures) in the modules of 'Principal Component Analysis' under the domain of 'Single-cell Atlas' and for the 'Co-expression function' domain. Integration is only recommended for the single-cell datasets generated from the same species.
                Rscript Integrated.R
                #input files are the Rda files generated by the Single.R script.
		
		4. Integration of expression matices (all datasets from single species) for the modules of 'Single-gene Enquiry' and 'Multi-gene Enquiry function' under the 'Single-cell Atlas' domain.
                Rscript Combined.R
                #input files are the Rda files generated from Single.R (no further integration) and Integrated.R (integrated matrics) scripts.
	
		5. Identification of temporally regulated genes: Calculation of the median TPM value for each gene as the gene expression level for each tissue-type (with a recorded timepoint) or a particular cell-type from a tissue-type. It serves as data matrics and data plots (such as significantly higher/lower expressed gene(s) and clustering of expression levels) in the module of 'Temporally regulated genes' under the domain of 'Temporal & Dynamic'.
                Rscript Differ.R
		#input files are the Rda files generated from Single.R (no further integration) and Integrated.R (integrated matrices) scripts.
		
		6. Chromosome-wide distribution of temporally regulated genes: for the module of 'Temporally regulated genes among chromosomes' under the domain of 'Temporal & Dynamic'.
                Rscript Chromosome.R
		#input files are txt files that consist of temporally regulated genes generated from the Differ.R script.

		7. Identification of genes with stably expressions in tissues or timepoints for the module of 'Stably expressed genes' under the domain of 'Temporal & Dynamic'.
                Rscript Stable.R
                #input files are the Rda files generated by the Combined.R script.
                

############################
Good Day!
